hello guys and welcome to my channel
today I'm going to tell you what is MBA
how to get an MBA and all about the
admissions process and I think the best
place to talk about MBA is Harvard
Business School I'm in Harvard now it's
Cambridge Boston and Harvard Business
School is ranked number one in all of
the rankings that ranked business
schools all over the world and if you're
interested in the MBA topic please
continue watching this video okay I
found a perfect location for shading in
this video this is Harvard Executive
Center for executive education and it's
Saturday and it's in silence perfect
from shooting the meeting so what's the
difference between masters and MBA so
masters would be this one year program
that concentrates particularly on one
subject for example masters in finance
or masters in marketing and there is no
such thing this is really rare if you
see some like masters and management
because masters management is MBA and
MBA prepares future leaders it helps
students get taste of everything like
j-stop finance Jason marketing you can
take concentration in particular
subjects you can do enterpreneurship if
you want to start your own company and
MBA is a two-year program that gives you
foundation in everything and prepares
you for your future management career
and another very important part of the
MBA is not working that's why it's two
years I guess because you're not only of
learning how to manage your company how
to run a department of something you're
also building connections you're
building connections with your
professors you're building connections
with the alumni of the school where
you're studying and you're also building
connections with the students that are
that are in your class and this is
really important and I actually talked
to a student from Harvard from Stanford
zouri and he told me that um 50 percent
of his time is not working so they're
going to collapse they are traveling
they're doing different things together
and it's also very important to manage
your time during MBA because there would
be so many things you want to do but you
would also need to study sometimes and
another thing that I wanted to point out
is if you're looking to do an MBA and
it's better to consider top 30 to 50
schools going lower it doesn't really
make sense because um what you're
getting from MBA again is connection in
that work for your future career but the
knowledge you can basically go in
Coursera and everything is free I think
MIT just opened all of its courses for
free public so you can read anything you
would get the same knowledge but
studying at school gives you this unique
experience of connecting with people and
I would say for MBA consider either
consider top 10 schools like top 30 top
30 max or do a master's program now I'm
going to talk to you about getting into
NBA so it is a very competitive program
if we take Harvard for example the
acceptance rate is around 11% for
Stanford it is like 6% and for MIT it's
around 11 to 14 percent so you have nine
more candidates standing in front of you
and who I want to get into exact same
program so what you need first you need
to have bachelor's degree and bachelor's
degree can be from any field you can be
you could have specialize in economics
you could specialize in medicine
whatever it doesn't matter because MBA
is I can prepare you to be a manager in
your particular field and actually if
you're looking for I can be in Madison
Johns Hopkins would be the best forward
I think Harvard also provides MBA
medicine and um after that you would
need to figure out whether you want to
have this work experience before your
MBA and that would really advise you to
have it because I've attended a couple
of lectures in Stanford and MIT and from
my perspective I have like five years of
experience of running my own company and
there were so many lectures that was so
practical I was like oh I had this
problem I wish I attended this lecture
you know earlier
but then I can apply what I'm listening
to to real life because otherwise if I
hadn't had those problems I would be
like oh who needs that but when you have
this real life experience it really
helps improve your performance during
the MBA so I would say two years of work
experience would be perfect and you
would be more competitive because
normally MBA applicants would have two
to three years of work experience on
average and you can actually go to any
MBA website like Harvard MBA would have
average class profile and you would see
who actually got in and how many work
experience they've had but you know
Harvard also accepts people with no work
experience but I would say to make your
application competitive and to take the
most out of your MBA experience have a
couple of years of real work time and
the the best companies to work for all
those who are known here in the States
especially if you are a foreign student
so go for big banks or big companies
like PricewaterhouseCoopers KPMG that
will be really helpful
the third thing inevitable GMAT test so
I've taken GMAT and it took me two
months to prepare because I was really
tough in time I decided to do my MBA
like in October and applied in January
and but normally people take five to six
months to prepare and I will leave all
the links below to my videos and to the
books have used so if you guys need some
preparation tips they would be all below
and it's better to score more than 700
and GMAT the maximum is 800 so um yeah I
will take back to six months preparation
and the average GMAT for Harvard for
example I think is around 710 or 720 so
you would want to be a little above
average basically in order to get in but
if you're in average that should be fine
there are also people who score like 650
and still get in but those are people
with unique experience I'd say like if
you had a start-up and you sold it or
you made amazing progress on your
workplace that will be a greatest that
will distinguish you from other
another example that you need to take if
you're an international applicant is
Stoffel language exam I will leave all
the links below again but TOEFL compared
to GMAT is like kindergarten exam
because GMAT is taken by you know
thousands of people all over the world
and you need to be enough top 10% and
you're competing against native speakers
you can fit engage Chinese people who
know mathematics like the geniuses in
maths and you really need to prepare
there and so there's also this
application form which is really really
thorough they would not only ask you
where you went to school or what are
your hobbies but also like describe
yourself at 20 words this is from
Stanford's application MIT you would ask
you to shoot a video but this is
optional but you can do an essay or you
can do a video and I definitely advise
you to make a video because this is
something that shows you as a
personality motivation letters are
really important part of your
application this is where you need to
show yourself as an individual and tell
those unique stories that made you
different from other applicants for
example Stanford asks what matters most
to you and why and this is not an essay
you would just write in the evening fdhs
had dinner and before you go to bed this
is something you need to think on this
is something you need to digest and come
up with the ideas and if you are
successful if the school likes you in a
month or so after the application
process they would invite you to come
over or meet with an alumni and conduct
an interview so for MIT and Harvard they
wouldn't want you to come here or they
also travel around around the world so
you can join them somewhere
city is close by to you Stanford will
connect you with an alumni who is based
in your city so you don't have to travel
and and also applying to business
schools it's not a cheap process so
every application would be around $250
if we're talking about top schools for
lower ranking universities I would say
$60 but still be ready for some expenses
but the major expense comes when you're
accepted because tuition for MBA
arranges from oh say $50,000 a year to
was $60,000 a year is MIT or 68
something so you would end up with with
having to pay around $200,000 for
two-year MBA including you know
accommodation food and your life
expenses so be ready for that um but
also like I would say 80% of students
don't pay the whole amount they get some
fellowships they get some scholarships
they get assistantships and I have the
whole video about types of financial aid
I would also leave a link below and yes
so but be ready and also like 80% would
get some sort of financial aid but also
the majority of students would take
loans directly from the universities and
when you finish your school you would
need to repay that loan but the great
thing is the average salary after an MBA
is around 120 K and year at $120,000 and
there is also the signing bonus when you
accept a job they would give you like
extra twenty thousand just because you
said yes which is amazing and top
companies start hunting MBA students
from I think one three into their
studies so they would come on campus and
present themselves and you can apply for
internship and if you're an
international student it's really
important for you to find internships
you're in your first summer after MBA
because you will need to get this work
visa if you want to stay the state so
after you finish the program you get an
opt and that allows you to stay in the
States for a year but then you need to
figure something out
and this is a very competitive field but
if you're willing to stay here you will
get a chance um yeah I think that was
pretty much it about MBAs so I I was
accepted to an MBA in the University of
Florida but I didn't go because I
decided to run my own startup but yeah I
think you should believe in yourself
believe in your chances of getting to
top schools and my advice is to apply to
run six schools like take two-star
schools to safety schools and to schools
that you're confident in so that you
have maximum chances of getting accepted
and if you have any questions guys there
is there would be a link to my forum
because comments I have a lot of
comments and have more than thirty
videos on my youtube and I get hundreds
of comments and but forum is where I
would normally answer and there is also
like a personal consultation with me I
will leave a link below so we can have
like a fifteen minutes where we sit down
and talk about your situation and I tell
you more about my application process so
yes that was it thank you so much for
watching this video don't forget to
subscribe and like it so other people
would also see it on YouTube and I hope
I inspired you guys to believe in
yourself and to start your preparation
and moving towards your dream of getting
an MBA thank you so much you're amazing
have a great day bye